Come on.
Erebor was lost.
For a dragon...
...will guard his plunder...
...as long as he lives.
Run for your lives!
Ah! Help us!
Thranduil would not risk
the lives of his kin against...
...the wrath of the dragon.
No help came from the Elves...
...that day, nor any day since.
Robbed of their homeland...
...the Dwarves of Erebor
wandered the wilderness...
...a once mighty people brought low.
The young Dwarf prince took work
where he could find it...
...laboring in the villages of Men.
But always he remembered...
...the mountain smoke beneath the moon...
...the trees like torches blazing bright.
For he had seen dragon fire...
...in the sky...
...and a city turned to ash.
And he never forgave...
...and he never forgot.
Far away, in another corner of the world...
...dragons were...
...only make-believe.
Up they go!
A party trick...
...conjured by Wizards...
...on Midsummer's Eve.
No more frightening...
...than fairy dust.
Bilbo!
And that, my dear Frodo...
...is where I come in.
Bilbo! Bilbo.
It was the beginning
of an unlikely friendship...
...that has lasted all my life.
But it is not the start of my story.
For me, it began...
Well, it began as you might expect.
In a hole in the ground, there lived...
...a Hobbit.
Not a nasty, dirty, wet hole
full of worms and oozy smells.
This was a Hobbit hole.
And that means good food, a warm hearth...
...and all the comforts of home.
Thank you.
What's this?
That is private.
Keep your sticky paws off.
It's not ready yet.
Not ready for what?
Reading.
What on earth are these?
Replies to the party invitations.
Ah. Good gracious. Is it today?
They all say they're coming.
Except for the Sackville-Bagginses,
who are demanding you ask them in person.
Are they, indeed? Over my...
-...dead body.
- They'd probably find that...
...quite agreeable.
They seem to think you have tunnels
overflowing with gold.
It was one small chest, hardly overflowing.